README.md, before:

# Bonsai - DeepLabCut
![logo](Resources/bonsai-dlc.png)

Bonsai.DeepLabCut is a [Bonsai](https://bonsai-rx.org/) interface for [DeepLabCut](https://www.mousemotorlab.org/deeplabcut) allowing real-time markerless pose estimation using pretrained models stored in the [Protocol Buffers (pb)](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/) format. Natively, DLC stores the result of training as checkpoints, but it is possible to export them to .pb files using the [DeepLabCut-modelexport](https://github.com/AlexEMG/DeepLabCut-modelexport) script.

Bonsai.DeepLabCut loads these .pb files using [TensorFlowSharp](https://github.com/migueldeicaza/TensorFlowSharp), a set of .NET bindings for TensorFlow allowing native inference using either the CPU or GPU. By using the .pb file and the pose configuration YAML, the `DetectPose` operator from Bonsai.DeepLabCut automatically sets up an inference graph and feeds it with live image data coming from any other Bonsai image source. The output is a `Pose` class which you can access to extract specific body parts, filter out invalid positions using a confidence threshold, or record using `CsvWriter`.

The Bonsai.DeepLabCut project was kickstarted at the [DeepLabCut Hackathon](https://www.mousemotorlab.org/workshops) sponsored by the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) and held at Harvard University.

## How to install

Bonsai.DeepLabCut can be downloaded through the Bonsai package manager. In order to get visualizer support, you should download both the `Bonsai.DeepLabCut` and `Bonsai.DeepLabCut.Design` packages. However, in order to use it for either CPU or GPU inference, you need to pair it with a compiled native TensorFlow binary. You can find precompiled binaries for Windows 64-bit at https://github.com/Neargye/tensorflow/releases.

To use GPU TensorFlow (highly recommended for live inference), you also need to install the CUDA Toolkit 10.0 (or lower) from the [CUDA Toolkit Archive](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-10.0-download-archive), download the [cuDNN Deep Neural Network Library](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn) for CUDA 10.0, and make sure you have a CUDA 10.0 [compatible GPU](https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/cuda-compatibility/index.html#support-hardware) with the latest NVIDIA drivers.

After downloading the native TensorFlow binary and cuDNN, you can follow these steps to get the required native files into the `Extensions` folder of your local Bonsai install:

1. The easiest way to find your Bonsai install folder is to right-click on the Bonsai shortcut > Properties. The path to the folder will be shown in the "Start in" textbox;
2. Rename the `tensorflow.dll` file from either the CPU or GPU [tensorflow release](https://github.com/Neargye/tensorflow/releases) as `libtensorflow.dll` and copy it into the `Extensions` folder;
3. If you are using TensorFlow GPU, copy the `cudnn64_7.dll` from the `cuda/bin` folder of your cuDNN download to the `Extensions` folder.

## How to use

The core operator of Bonsai.DeepLabCut is the `DetectPose` node. You can place it after any image source, like so:

![detect-pose.svg](Resources/detect-pose.svg)

You will also need to point the `ModelFileName` to the exported .pb file containing your pretrained DLC model, and the `PoseConfigFileName` to the `pose_cfg.yaml` file describing the joint labels of the pose skeleton.

If everything works out, you should see some indications in the Bonsai command line window about whether the GPU was successfully detected and enabled. The first frame will cold start the inference graph which may take a bit of time, but after that your poses should start streaming through!

Commit message:

adding links to export docs within DLC!

README.md, after:

# Bonsai - DeepLabCut
![logo](Resources/bonsai-dlc.png)

Bonsai.DeepLabCut is a [Bonsai](https://bonsai-rx.org/) interface for [DeepLabCut](https://www.mousemotorlab.org/deeplabcut) allowing real-time markerless pose estimation using pretrained models stored in the [Protocol Buffers (pb)](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/) format. Natively, DLC stores the result of training as checkpoints, but it is possible to export them to .pb files using the `deeplabcut.export_model` function within DLC ([Read more here](https://github.com/AlexEMG/DeepLabCut/blob/master/docs/HelperFunctions.md#new-model-export-function)).

Bonsai.DeepLabCut loads these .pb files using [TensorFlowSharp](https://github.com/migueldeicaza/TensorFlowSharp), a set of .NET bindings for TensorFlow allowing native inference using either the CPU or GPU. By using the .pb file and the pose configuration YAML (`pose_cfg.yaml`), the `DetectPose` operator from Bonsai.DeepLabCut automatically sets up an inference graph and feeds it with live image data coming from any other Bonsai image source. The output is a `Pose` class which you can access to extract specific body parts, filter out invalid positions using a confidence threshold, or record using `CsvWriter`.

The Bonsai.DeepLabCut project was kickstarted at the [DeepLabCut Hackathon](https://www.mousemotorlab.org/workshops) sponsored by the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) and held at Harvard University.

## How to install

Bonsai.DeepLabCut can be downloaded through the Bonsai package manager. In order to get visualizer support, you should download both the `Bonsai.DeepLabCut` and `Bonsai.DeepLabCut.Design` packages. However, in order to use it for either CPU or GPU inference, you need to pair it with a compiled native TensorFlow binary. You can find precompiled binaries for Windows 64-bit at https://github.com/Neargye/tensorflow/releases.

To use GPU TensorFlow (highly recommended for live inference), you also need to install the CUDA Toolkit 10.0 (or lower) from the [CUDA Toolkit Archive](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-10.0-download-archive), download the [cuDNN Deep Neural Network Library](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn) for CUDA 10.0, and make sure you have a CUDA 10.0 [compatible GPU](https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/cuda-compatibility/index.html#support-hardware) with the latest NVIDIA drivers.

After downloading the native TensorFlow binary and cuDNN, you can follow these steps to get the required native files into the `Extensions` folder of your local Bonsai install:

1. The easiest way to find your Bonsai install folder is to right-click on the Bonsai shortcut > Properties. The path to the folder will be shown in the "Start in" textbox;
2. Rename the `tensorflow.dll` file from either the CPU or GPU [tensorflow release](https://github.com/Neargye/tensorflow/releases) as `libtensorflow.dll` and copy it into the `Extensions` folder;
3. If you are using TensorFlow GPU, copy the `cudnn64_7.dll` from the `cuda/bin` folder of your cuDNN download to the `Extensions` folder.

## How to use

The core operator of Bonsai.DeepLabCut is the `DetectPose` node. You can place it after any image source, like so:

![detect-pose.svg](Resources/detect-pose.svg)

You will also need to point the `ModelFileName` to the exported .pb file containing your pretrained DLC model, and the `PoseConfigFileName` to the `pose_cfg.yaml` file describing the joint labels of the pose skeleton.

If everything works out, you should see some indications in the Bonsai command line window about whether the GPU was successfully detected and enabled. The first frame will cold start the inference graph which may take a bit of time, but after that your poses should start streaming through!
